# Inspired Science

## BASICS

Inspired Science is a mod about mad science. Mad science that shouldn't work according to the common laws of physics, but somehow does in spite of it. It is powered by an etheric substance called Mania. It serves as the power source forthose reality bending inventions, allowing them to work. The devices created by mad science also require some certain"fields" or "aspects" of mad science. They are commonly called Axioms. And most importantly, every mad scientist requires a theory to work off of. It doesn't need to be true, the mad scientist might not even believe it to be true. The only thing they have to do is build their devices according to said theory, and use it to channel their Mania into the needed shape.

## MANIA

Mania as a resource is generated by feeding the player's experience into a special "research" machine. It doesn't do any actual research, and only serves as a converter of the sane mind's experience into Mania.
	
## AXIOMS

There are eight Axioms of mad science, each specialised in a certain application of Mania.

### Apokalipsi - discovery, senses. 
This Axiom allows the device it's used in to detect various things. It can amplify the senses of the user, it can serve as a radar or scanner, it can detect various "fields" and other such things according to their theory.

Example: Ore detector, automatic mapper.

### Automata - independence, automatization. 
This Axiom allows the device to work independently from the user. It can be a certain degree of sapience, allowing the users to create mobs for various uses. On the other hand, it can also be used to create automatic machines that would do something by themselves without any supervision, up to mass producing devices.

Example: Auto miner, protector robot

### Epikrato - control. Mind controlling mobs, 
This Axiom allows the device it's used in to control and manipulate minds. Mostly allows you to control mobs that were not created by you.

Example: Mob attractor/repulor, villager indoctrinator

### Exelixi - restoration, healing. 
This Axiom allows the device it's used in to heal, repair and restore things.

Example: Healing ray, armor repairer.

### Katastrofi - destruction, damage. 
This Axiom allows the device it's used in to apply damage in more ways than just hitting someone with it over the head. Laser beams, but also allows for destruction/deconstruction of blocks and items.

Example: Ray gun, mining laser.

### Metapropi - transformation, mutation. 
This Axiom allows the device it's used in to change objects. Turning blocks into other blocks, turning mobs into other mobs or changing their characteristics, etc.

Example: Philosopher's gun, Creeper defuser

### Prostasia - protection, defense. 
Duh, probably.

### Skafoi - Travel, movement. 
Teleporters, speed-uppers, dimension-travelers, etc.
		
## THEORY
